<h1>The Offer and Beyond</h1>

<h2>Handling Offers and Rejections</h2>

<h3>Offer Deadlines and Extensions</h3>
<p> When companies extend an offer, there's almost always a deadline attached to it. Usuall these deadlines are one to four weeks out. If you are still wating to hear back from other companies, you can ask for an extension. Companies will usually try to accomodate this, if possible.</p>

<h3>Declining an Offer</h3>
<p>It's in your best interest to decline the offer on good terms and keep a line of communication open. When you decline an offer, provide a reason that is non-offensive and inarguable.</p>

<h3>Handling Rejection</h3>
<ul>
    <li>Getting reject is unfortunate, but it doesn't mean that you're not a great engineer. Lots of great engineers do poorly, either because they don't "test well" on these sort of interviewers, or they just had an "off" day. 
    </li>
    <li>Use this as an opportunity to build a bridge to re-apply by asking the recruiter when a good time to do so will be. </li>
    <li>Also, ask for feedback.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Evaluating the offer</h3>
<ul>
    <li>The Financial Package</li>
    <li>*Career Development</li>
    <li>Company Stability</li>
    <li>The Happiness Factor</li>
</ul>

<h3>Negotiation</h3>
<ol>
    <li>Just Do It</li>
    <li>Have a Viable Alternative</li>
    <li>Have a Specific "Ask"</li>
    <li>Overshoot</li>
    <li>Think Beyond the Salary</li>
    <li>Use your best medium</li>
</ol>

<h3>On the job</h3>
<h4>Set a timeline</h4>
<p>Often, people can become so complacent about where they work that they forget they need to ensure they are still evolving in their careers. Ensure you set a timeline of what you want to accomplish while there. If your path does not align with your job, it may be time to start looking for another position. </p>
<h4>Build strong relationships</h4>
<h4>Ask for what you want</h4>
<p>Make sure you are asking for specific items that will make you happy with your career goals.</p>
<h4>*Keep Interviewing</h4>
